So, the transition from stage two
to stage three is tricky, right?
We just talked about that teeter totter
possibility, that's very normal.
But I wanna remind you that this
transition is really about a mindset
shift for the design system team.
This is when you feel comfortable
enough with adoption,
with your grasp on adoption, that you're
ready to focus on other challenges.
Now, one way that I think about
the overarching focus of stage three is
that they're really about finding
a way to keep your promises.
And this is because back in stage one or
stage two, we made a bunch of promises to
our leaders, to our potential subscribers,
and we said, this thing is gonna help you.
And it's gonna make you faster,
it's gonna spread accessibility around
the organization, it's going to
create more consistent interfaces,
it's gonna do whatever it was that you
needed to say, whatever promises you made.
Well now stage three,
you kinda gotta live up to that [LAUGH].
So the top challenge here
is really proving that
the system does what you said it would do.
The interesting thing here is,
you're given a little bit of grace in
stage two because people get this, right?
You built the thing, but you have to
spend some time bringing people on board.
So until there is good adoption,
there's no way for
you to make any correlation
to any benefits.
There's no way for you to make an impact.
So now it's time to
keep those promises and
this is where we wanna see the actual
data and it takes time, right?
Even in stage three, we probably still
need more time of capturing that data.
And really, it's not so much,
I mentioned this earlier,
it's not your job to track the efficiency
of your product teams, right?
Of your subscriber groups,
they should be doing that.
What you need to do is the correlation.
And so when I say that,
here's what I mean,
as something changes,
we see something else improve, right?
So this is now for
all of the data nerds out there,
I don't think there is a design system
that exists that has enough subscribers
that we're gonna get statistically
relevant correlation here, okay?
So that's not the point, but there's so
many ways to make improvements
in the things that we promise.
So a design system is clearly not the only
way for you to become more efficient.
It's not the only way for you to be more
consistent, it's not the only way for
there to be accessibility
spread around the organization.
There's lots of ways
to see those benefits.
So what we wanna try to do is show
that when things change with adoption,
which is the left side of this,
we see changes or improvements, or
not improvements,
on the right side of this.
So that's the metrics that we promised,
okay?
I can't tell you what to track, right?
Here's a list, I mean, this is not
intended for you to read all of this.
But there are thousands of
things you could track, okay?
Just a few,
what are the percentage of products with
a level one grade A adaption, right?
[LAUGH] That may be something that if
we can see that change, we can then
correlate that to perhaps the velocity
of product or feature teams, okay?
So you're looking for
two sides of this equation.
And you're trying to say, as we see
this go, as we see this adoption change,
this type of adoption metric change across
our teams, we also can expect to see these
kinds of improvements in their data
that they're capturing about their work.
All right, so, does this make sense?
This concept of correlation
is kinda what you have to do,
that's kinda your job, right?
I do see a lot of design system teams
that think it's their job to track all
of the stuff on the right for
their subscribers, and
there is no way you could
possibly do that, all right?
So this is where you almost kind
of reverse engineer it, right?
Once you've got a subscriber and
you've defined your subscriber groups,
you go to them and you find out what
are the things they already track?
If you're asking them to start
tracking something now that's
new that they never tracked before,
there's even more resistance, right?
So start with the things
they are already measuring.
And hopefully, if you followed sort of
this maturity model in the stage one,
you're actually gathering baselines for
a lot of the stuff on the right.
So you know what this data used to be,
you know what the average age of bug or
feature requests was in each
of your subscriber groups.
So now you can look to see that improve.
The other thing that's really,
really important here
is adding disciplines to
the design system team, right?
So stage three is usually, if you're able
to kinda show some of those correlations,
this is usually where your leadership
will say, all right, you've done well,
you kept a few of those promises,
good work.
And then you can say back,
here's all the work we're trying to do,
here's the backlog,
we have a lot to accomplish.
And I think we can make a bigger impact,
but I need more people on my team.
And so, this is challenging, right?
Most teams, they see this, they get that
open position and they look at their
existing team and they think, we need
to do more of what we're already doing.
And they hire another designer or another
front end dev or something like this.
Maybe that is the case, but
I always try to challenge people to say
design systems are for
way more than designers and developers.
They're for every discipline, as we talked
about, that's involved in interface work.
So think about all these other
potential roles that you could
also be filling on your team.
And in fact it doesn't hurt to
write a little job description for
each of these and
take it to your leadership and say, look,
this is what I think we actually need,
right?
So now you might be showing them this
is actually in stage three we do
have to get to that product mindset.
So we need QA, we need a content lead,
we need a support person [LAUGH]
there's a ton of work to be done there.
So I would encourage you to branch out and
think about the open positions a little
differently than maybe your
default sort of reaction is.
A nice way to make this list for
your company cuz this is just my list,
you might look at your product or
feature teams and say,
what are the disciplines they have?
Okay, we already know
culturally there's support for
us to have UX writers because
they are on our product teams.
Or there's a whole group of folks who do
that work for us inside the organization.
So you're gonna have a lot easier
time hiring from roles that already
exist somewhere else in
the organization onto your system team,
than trying to make the case that we need
to create a whole new role here that
people will get it, right?
They'll understand,
yeah you probably do need a product owner.
[LAUGH] So think about that in terms of
how your organization is already set up.